[Music]
pilots reveal 16 nuances that will help
you become an expert in air travel each
profession has its own tricks of the
trade that aren't usually shared with
anyone outside the professional circle
Aviation has always been a fascinating
and mysterious line of work and this
makes it even more interesting to learn
about all the secrets and nuances that
we AV ation Outsiders have no idea about
in this video you'll get some pretty
unexpected and useful insider knowledge
directly from different airline crew
members we would like to share them with
you before you set forth on your next
trip if you've never heard of at least
one of these facts it's the like button
[Music]
number 16 pilots are prohibited from
having a beard
some airlines forbid their pilots from
having beards the reasoning behind this
is that a beard can prevent an oxygen
mask from securing to the face tightly
in the event of an emergency situation
that's right pilots have to put on
oxygen masks just like passengers do
don't worry if you're dreaming of
becoming a pilot but aren't ready to say
goodbye to your beloved facial hair just
choose the right airline
some of them have no problem with it as
long as the oxygen mask still works
properly
number 15 it's cold on planes for the
sake of your health according to
research conducted by the American
Society for testing and materials
there's a close correlation between the
temperature and air pressure on an
airplane and fainting caused by hypoxia
a condition in which tissues of the body
don't get enough oxygen you can imagine
how dangerous that is if the air in the
cabin is too warm it can trigger this
problem so that's why the air
temperature is kept cool dress warmly
for your flights and try not to complain
about being cold that way for your own
good
number 14 planes never fly in straight
lines here are some shocking facts a
Boeing 747 burns more than 11 tons of
fuel for each hour of flight and if it's
ascending that number is even bigger so
you might assume that the shorter the
distance the better but on some long
flights passengers can see a map
displaying the flight trajectory in real
time if you've ever watched your flight
path have you ever noticed that the
aircraft doesn't fly in a straight line
but rather a curved one sometimes it
even zigzags by curved lines that's
because the earth is round but the map
on the screen is flat but what's the
zigzagging all about
that's due to special flight regulations
requiring pilots to stick to certain
routes in order to have enough time to
reach an airport in case of an emergency
landing weather conditions affect the
trajectory as well number 13
it's better to wear sturdy shoes on a
flight take it from experienced flight
crews from around the world they beg you
to leave your backless sandals and high
heels at home and go for sturdier shoes
there are really serious safety reasons
for this request the thing is that both
these types of footwear make it too
difficult to vacate the aircraft quickly
if you wear high heels you'll have to
leave them behind anyway in case
emergency slides are used during an
evacuation heels can puncture the slide
so off they go just ask yourself you
really want to run from the plane
barefoot and are you ready to part with
your cute heels forever opt for secure
shoes with a solid salt so that you
won't find yourself standing in your
flip-flops on the hot tarmac or in the
weeds without any shoes at all number 12
pilots and dispatchers aren't always
formal with each other there's a
tradition that dispatchers congratulate
pilots on all holidays just imagine
around Christmas time a pilot can have
up to four flights a day which means
about 2,000 people wishing them a Merry
Christmas when the German football team
became the world champions all
dispatchers of the world were
congratulating our crew says I'm Jay
Sheppard a pilot with Lufthansa
[Music]
number eleven the average person will
never manage to land plane action movies
often show us heroic scenes where the
main character some average Joe but
nonetheless brave and savvy rushes into
the cockpit and triumphantly lands an
unmanned plane wait where are the pilots
the villain got rid of them of course
unfortunately this Hollywood fantasy is
pretty much impossible in real life even
if someone is a genius hooked on
realistic flight simulators all ready
and willing to follow all the
instructions from ground control he's
still likely to fail due to one simple
thing stress it's true that there have
been cases in the past where amateurs
landed small private planes after the
incapacitation of a pilot however there
has never been a case of an
unprofessional landing a jumbo sized
commercial airplane number 10 flight
delays affect not only passengers but
flight attendants as well flight
attendants are paid only for in flight
hours time spent on the ground doesn't
count the only thing that airlines offer
is a small allowance for every hour
spent at the airport so next time try
not to go off on a stewardess when your
plane is still on the ground for some
reason she's in the same boat as you are
number 9 pilots have to take turns going
to the bathroom when one pilot needs to
use the restroom
a flight attendant must join the other
pilot in the cockpit and wait until the
first one returns from the his bathroom
break this is done to avoid any issues
like being locked out of the cockpit if
the second pilot suddenly passes out by
the way while some aircrafts have a
bathroom dedicated only to the crew
others fill this space with rows of
extra seats in this case the pilot has
to wait in a line with passengers if he
has to go this often provokes a lot of
panic reactions like who's flying the
plane and only if the pilot is lucky
enough he's allowed to jump the line
[Music]
number 8 airplane food is bad and
nobody's to blame for it tasteless
airplane food is nobody's fault but
science and high altitudes our taste
buds and sense of smell can play tricks
on us not to mention low humidity noise
levels in the cabin and low air pressure
also play a big role in this for example
the air in the cabin is about 15 percent
drier than on the ground
that explains the uncomfortable feeling
of dehydration and a super
my nose and mouth this definitely takes
a toll on your taste perception consider
this fact as well before you complain
about the quality of the wine on an
airplane it's absolutely the same as the
wine you enjoy on the ground it's simply
the environmental conditions onboard and
their effect on your body that make it
taste so bad
[Music]
number seven comfortable clothes help
you stay healthy when on a plane go for
comfortable clothes with breathable
fabrics it'll help you tremendously when
you're trying to fall asleep also
remember that it's better to wear
loose-fitting clothes to prevent the
development of deep vein thrombosis
formal or tight clothing will heighten
your risk of developing a blood clot try
to avoid caffeine even during the day to
help you fall asleep at night
don't forget your earplugs and a
sleeping mask number six pilots
communicate with flight attendants
through a bulletproof door did you know
that the door to the cockpit is
bulletproof it's true it's designed to
stop bullets and even small grenades the
door also has a keypad for a special
access code known only by the flight
crew it can open the cockpit door if the
pilot inside doesn't react within 120
seconds after the code has been entered
this is crucial for emergency situations
in which flight crew need to get to the
pilot in the cockpit ASAP not to mention
the beefed up security is obviously
necessary to prevent hijackings by
keeping the tube guys in the cockpit and
the bad guys out in day-to-day
situations white attendants cross-check
pilots over the phone they're required
to do it every 40 minutes during the day
and every 20 minutes at night to make
sure the pilot isn't feeling
light-headed or unwell
number five the smoothest place to sit
is over or near the wing imagine a
flying plane like a seesaw as it dips
and turns in the air parts of the plane
sway more than others the rockiest seats
are in the back so if you want to have a
calm and quiet flight without too much
swinging two seats in the middle near
the wings some other interesting
differences within the cabin the
freshest air is near the front of the
plane in the warmest temperature in the
back now you can choose your seats
according to your priorities number four
there's a secret signal for the airport
if the plane has been hijacked
fortunately it doesn't happen often but
when it does pilots give a special
signal to the airport when they're
landing they leave the plane's wing
flaps up it's one of the ways to show
that there's something bad happening on
the plane number three a hard landing is
sometimes done on purpose when you
experience a hard landing and bad
weather it doesn't mean that the pilot
is a newbie or lacks the know-how in
fact sometimes they do it intentionally
if the runway is covered in water the
airplane has to touch down hard in order
to break through the layer of water and
prevent hydroplaning otherwise the water
acts like a lubricant lowering friction
between the airplanes landing gear and
the runway this can cause the plane to
skid uncontrollably if you've ever
driven too fast on wet roads you
understand completely what we're talking
about here
[Music]
number two cabin lights are dimmed
during a nighttime landing for a reason
dimming the cabin lights helps
passengers eyes adjust for the bright
light of the cabin to the dim nighttime
light on the ground during an emergency
it's prohibited to turn the lights on so
that passengers will already be
accustomed to dim lighting just in case
everything to keep you safe and make
your life more comfortable another
advantage of doing this is to conserve
energy number one there's only 15
minutes worth of oxygen in the masks
there's only enough oxygen in the masks
for just a quarter of an hour but you
shouldn't panic this is plenty of time
for the pilot to take the plane to a
lower altitude where you can breathe
normally which fact has been the most
astonishing for you do you know any
other secrets from the world of aviation
write to us in the comments and remember
to give us a like share this video with
the jet-setters in your life since it
could be useful for them and not to miss
anything interesting subscribe to our
Channel and join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]